#summary Provides a summary of changes for each release milestone.
#labels Featured


=== October 2, 2007 Milestone Release ===

This release provides improved !UriCache utility package:

Summary of changes:
 * The !UriCache is completely rewritten.
 * It provides persistence and it is hooked to the Java shutdown call.
 * The underlying caching mechanism now is [http://jakarta.apache.org/jcs/apidocs/org/apache/jcs/auxiliary/disk/indexed/package-summary.html org.apache.jcs.auxiliary.disk.indexed.IndexedDiskCache], which is different from previous  LRU Memory cacahe + Auxiliary !DiskCache mechanism. In this implementation all keys of cached items reside in the memory along with disk indexes while items itself stored on the hard drive.
 * Shrinker thread is fully functional now.
 * Improved test coverage.
 Known bug: !UriCache wouldn't throw the exception about instantiating a cache with the same name as the active cache, you'll get JCS exception instead.
 


=== September 18, 2007 Milestone Release ===

This release provides improved UriCache utility package:

Summary of changes:
 * UriCache got generics now: it must be created as UriCache<K, V>.
 * UriCache is now a memory cache backed by the indexed disk cache.

Known bugs:
 * Persistence of the disk stored items doesn't work.
 * Shrinker thread is slow and sometimes seems to doesn't work at all.
 

=== July 10, 2007 Milestone Release ===

This release provides two utility packages: hackystatlogger.lib.jar and stacktrace.lib.jar.

Package:
  * [http://hackystat-utilities.googlecode.com/files/hackystat-utilities-8.0.710.zip hackystat-utilities-8.0.710]

Summary of changes:
 * hackystatlogger.lib.jar provides a wrapper around the Java logging package with formatters that produce timestamps in the standard hackystat fashion.
 * stacktrace.lib.jar provides a convenience class for converting a stacktrace to a string.
 
 